[Music]
It's the first pigeon shooting outing of 2013
- it's not through lack of trying but the
weather and the seasons being all over the
place has meant that the birds and the Crow
have been difficult to get in the same place
at the same time.
Finally it's starting to happen, especially
in this corner of the farm where the birds
are flitting between winter rape, spring peas,
and buds off the trees.
What a lot of the pigeons are doing at the
moment is they are still feeding on buds which
they should be finished on now.
From now onwards we should be hopefully picking
up some good easy day's pigeon shooting.
But it is not going to happen for a while
because they are going to be on these buds
and as soon as you start shooting they are
going to go away and sit in the ash trees,
on the oak on the flowering, on the beeches
and that and they are going to be on those.
The winter rape at this end of the field has
struggled in the bad weather, and the whole
crop is behind, which means the plants are
small enough for the pigeons to land for a
munch.
In a normal year, this field would be a vibrant
yellow with the plants too high for the birds
to drop in to.
Andy knows where he wants to be - but that
isn't always possible.
I have got a field of spring peas next door.
They have started on those a bit.
So it is really a bit of a draw to this corner.
The place I want to shoot is a bit further
down the hedge, but I don't know if David
can show you.
We have got a telegraph pole and some wires
going across.
So we can't shoot where I really want to shoot.
So we are going to have to do second best
go just here somewhere.
It looks like the wires are close to us, but
they are not they are 80 yards further down
the field.
So we are just going to hope that we can draw
the pigeons up the field to where we want
them which is here.
Andy has some new kit on test.
A1 Decoys, Lincoln shotguns, Gamebore cartridges
and Jack Pyke clothing have asked Crow to
use and abuse their products and see if they
have the right crowdentials - sorry!
The Lincoln was fresh out of the box yesterday
and old Crow has done all right with it so
far.
The old Lincoln doesn't seem to be doing too
bad.
It is making me look good.
I have had four shots, four kills so I am
happy.
Oh no sorry five shots, five kills so I am
It is going to take a bit of getting used
to.
I am used to the safety catch being at the
back of the trigger.
On this one the safety catch is on the top.
Yes, apart from that it is a good old thing
and the gamebore, clear pigeons seem to be
performing well as well.
Andy has always emphasised the importance
of good cartridges for pigeon shooting, for
that all-important knock-down power.
To try and explain a bit about what Crow wants
from a cartridge we need some visual aids
and a glamorous assistant.
... talking a bit about knock down performance
of cartridges and it is a difficult thing
for people to grasp.
It is a bit subjective for some people and
they don't quite know what it means, but they
know what the results are.
Yes, that is right.
So, we have brought some handy visual aids
along to try and explain this a little bit.
So can you tell us what the key elements of
knock down power are.
Dom it is speed, size and weight of the shot.
So you can have two projectiles which are
fundamentally the same size, but one of them
can weigh more than the other.
Cricket ball, similar size to a tennis ball,
but weighs a lot more.
So that is going to have more energy and it
is going to deliver more knock down performance
than that.
So lead shot heavier than steel shot.
Yes.
Lead is always going to give more knock down
than steel shot.
Plus the lead performs as well.
Basically what that means is it is not passing
through the bird all the energy it imparts
is within the bird.
The other thing of course is the speed.
So for example if I was to chuck this tennis
ball at your face very gently it would annoy
you.
Yes.
If I were to chuck the tennis ball at your
head very hard it would probably result in
me visiting A & E.
More than likely yes.
So we are going to demonstrate that with our
handy dummy because Andy wasn't brave enough
to stand here and let me throw tennis balls
at him even though he has seen me shoot and
he is pretty sure I will miss.
In slow motion, we see the jacket buckle to
a greater degree as the ball gets heavier.
Another thing that Crow wants to mention is
density or tightness of the pattern.
Dom doesn't have 15 cricket balls to throw
but Andy likes his shot to stick together
as there's more chance of killing the bird
stone dead.
As this footage shows, the lead pellets in
the Gamebore cartridge need to be fast, heavy,
distort on impact, and keep tight.
Andy wants plenty of pellets finding the target.
Seeing we're talking about Andy's style of
shooting - these reverse shots show his gun
is always swinging through the shot.
We also spot that Mr Crow closes one eye just
before pulling the trigger.
It may not be the way they teach you at school
but it works for him.
Right, back to the pigeon shooting and the
birds are playing hard to get.
Andy has a change around and sticks a whirly
up with a couple of A1 Decoys' new Pro Flap
models.
Crow is not 100 per cent sure he's set them
up properly as they're fresh out of the box
but help is at hand because A1 Decoys has
a YouTube site with an instructional vid.
The birds come in fits and starts and we are
constantly reminded that the best place would
be on the corner near the wires - but that's
life and we are getting some sport.
If the birds do keep to the trees Crow claps
them out for a couple of reasons.
I just had some pigeons land in a tree up
there to the left.
I just clap them out otherwise other birds
are going to just decoy straight into them
and if you do have a shot you are scaring
them anyway.
You are better scaring them out to get rid
of them, to get them moved on really so they
don't hear the loud bang of a shot.
The afternoon has flown by and it's a lot
later than we'd imagined.
Mrs Crow brings out a lasagne for one and
all so it's time to pack up.
We got upper 60s.
We got 65, 66 something like that and a crow
and a jay which is quite nice.
In the end we pick up 74 woodies.
Crow feels we would have doubled that if we'd
been under the wires but that's life - the
most important thing for us is that pigeon
is finally back on the menu.